# climate-research-upslope-flux-methods
This is my python notebook from my research with Professor Joel Norris. There was a lot more to the research, but this notebook serves as a summary of the most important findings. The data that was used has not been provided.

## Comparing Water Vapor Upslope Flux Measurements and Precipitation Prediction

Abstract

This report is motivated by a need to better understand the accuracy of measurements that predict rainfall during Atmospheric River events. The main measurement of interested is upslope flux which is a measurement of the amount of water vapor that is being transported in the direction of nearby mountains which cause orographic forcing of precipitation. The measurement method that is commonly used is one that uses integrated water vapor from satellite measurements and the average of the wind in a range of altitudes associated with high vapor transport. We call this method the Ralph method. Recent gathering of general atmospheric data from Radiosondes weather balloon launches allows us to compare this method with one that uses data from a much wider range of altitudes. We found that an upslope flux calculation method (which we call the balloon method) that utilizes a wider range of data had a lower correlation with rainfall than the method mentioned earlier. The Pearson correlation coefficients are 0.5032 and 0.57649 respectively. We also found that the balloon method had a lower precision than the Ralph method which was tested using residuals from a best fit line. The RMS of the residuals for the balloon method was 3.4497mm and 3.2618mm for the Ralph method. We also tested a modified version of the Ralph method which includes using the relative humidity at the surface. This method had a correlation coefficient of 0.57822 and the RMS of the residuals is 3.257mm which increased the correlation by 0.3% and decreased the RMS of the residuals by 5.6%. We also explore some of the conditions that could cause the difference in upslope flux measurements such as specific humidity, relative humidity, potential temperature, wind speed, and more.
